README.md, before:

# Sherman Adelson

This is my personal profile repository, mostly meant to be a vehicle to simplify
sending my resume to recruiters and the like.

## Resume on Github
I was originally using Google Docs to edit my resume. This worked fine,
but I got tired of having to convert to PDF. I also wanted to be able to
use git to keep my changes. Plus, using github puts my resume and my other
projects together in one place.

My resume is now in markdown, and I have created a script which converts
to HTML and PDF and stores them in S3. The hardest part of this script
was choosing which library on NPM to use for each conversion. I'm happy
with the results so far. There are still some things I want to add for
formatting and to make the script portable.

* [PDF Version](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sherman-adelson-resume/sherman-adelson-resume.pdf "Sherman Adelson - Resume - PDF")

* [HTML Version](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sherman-adelson-resume/sherman-adelson-resume.html "Sherman Adelson - Resume - HTML")

## Open Source
I recently decided to start open-sourcing some of the smaller projects I've 
been working on, so that maybe they can be useful to someone else. This is
going slowly now, but I'm going to try to do at least one commit per
day.

Commit message:

added bus app link to readme

README.md, after:

# Sherman Adelson

This is my personal profile repository, mostly meant to be a vehicle to simplify
sending my resume to recruiters. I will also start adding links to my
projects on this page.

## Resume on Github
I was originally using Google Docs to edit my resume. This worked fine,
but I got tired of having to convert to PDF. I also wanted to be able to
use git to keep my changes. Plus, using github puts my resume and my other
projects together in one place.

My resume is now in markdown, and I have created a script which converts
to HTML and PDF and stores them in S3. The hardest part of this script
was choosing which library on NPM to use for each conversion. I'm happy
with the results so far. There are still some things I want to add for
formatting and to make the script portable.

* [PDF Version](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sherman-adelson-resume/sherman-adelson-resume.pdf "Sherman Adelson - Resume - PDF")

* [HTML Version](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sherman-adelson-resume/sherman-adelson-resume.html "Sherman Adelson - Resume - HTML")

## Projects

I used the Cincinnati Metro to get to work every day, and when I learned
that Cinci Metro was exporting GTFS data, I had to build a program to
use it. While it's still a work in progress, it is already useful if
you're waiting for a bus. There are a ton of features I haven't yet
added, but it's a good start.

[Where's Sherman's bus?](http://www.wheresshermansbus.com "Where's
Sherman's Bus?")

## Open Source
I recently decided to start open-sourcing some of the smaller projects I've 
been working on, so that maybe they can be useful to someone else. This is
going slowly now, but I'm going to try to do at least one commit per
day.
