sherman-adelson-resume.md, before:

﻿#Sherman Adelson

6067 Wayside Avenue, Cincinnati, OH 45230

(513)-218-8048 - sherman.adelson@gmail.com

##Professional Summary:

Experienced in multiple aspects of Software Engineering, particularly modern web technologies, open source tools, project management, and user interface design.

##Experience:
###Zipscene, LLC
####Team Lead - February 2015 to July 2015
Responsible for team maintaining customer facing software and building replacements for legacy systems.
* Led team of 5 developers, each working on several projects per week. Conducted code reviews, wrote instructions for QA team, and ensured deadlines were met.
* Maintained production servers hosting websites and ecommerce for over a dozen national and international restaurant chains.
* Communicated with Portfolio and Customer Care teams to ensure accuracy of project requirements.
* Responsible for IOS and Android app deployments for multiple teams.
* Was one of two people called for urgent customer-facing incidents, including after-hours and on weekends.
* Performed quarterly performance evaluations of people in my team.
* Continued to perform the duties of a Back-end Developer in addition to
  fulfilling Team Lead responsibilities.

####Back-end Developer - September 2014 to February 2015
Responsible for maintaining and enhancing customer facing software for the Delivery Team.
* Maintained legacy websites and fulfilled customer requests with short deadlines.
* Fixed bugs and added features to 8 different CMS and website platforms in Node.js and PHP.
* Wrote data segmentation tools to show priority clients the effects of their customer loyalty programs on sales in weekly reports.
* Maintained and added website platform features using external API integrations including Fishbowl, Exact Target, Google Analytics and others.
* Developed automated scripts to simplify workflow for legacy system maintenance.
* Responsible for production and QA deployment of Magento e-commerce platform.
* Contributed to documentation of legacy maintenance tasks.

###Really Big Spiders, LLC
####Owner, Web Designer, Software Engineer - 2007 to Present
*Tales From the Strange Universe (TFTSU)* http://www.tftsu.com/

Developed Tales From the Strange Universe, an internet browser game with players in more than 10 countries.
* Designed and built TFTSU using PHP, Python, Javascript, Linux, Nginx, and MySql. 
* Used Ajax techniques with jQuery and Javascript to implement advanced user interface features. 
* Built a pay-to-play token system using Amazon FPS for credit card processing. Later migrated payment system from Amazon FPS to Stripe.
* Performed multiple rounds of Usability Testing to refine interface and features. 
* Built an integrated real-time chat system to encourage social networking in TFTSU. 
* Integrated Simple Machines Forum and MediaWiki with TFTSU using single sign-on to foster community interaction and participation. 
* Used Django and Tornado Web Server to implement Comet techniques and allow server-push for chat and real-time alerts.
* Used Python and Bash to automate server deployment, configuration, and dependency installation on Amazon EC2 instances. Automated code deployment from Subversion repository to web server using Python. Automated nightly backups of all databases to Amazon S3.
* Ran a successful Kickstarter campaign to raise funds for completing development.

*Web Design*

Designed web sites and customized Open Source web applications to customer requirements.
* Customized OSCommerce systems including user interface changes, adding and removing payment flow steps, replacing contact forms, and special order tracking.
* Customized Wordpress sites, including creating themes and modifying administrative interface. Wrote programs to batch import hundreds of articles and photos.
* Built websites using Drupal CMS with extensions including calendars and shopping carts.
* Hosted customer websites on a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, Mysql, PHP) on Plesk managed servers.

###Ohmart/Vega Corp.
####Software Engineer - 2003 to 2007
*Industrial Insight Wireless Sensor System*

Designed and wrote software under supervision of Industrial Insight Product Manager.
* Designed and wrote user interface software for Industrial Insight wireless sensor products. 
* Designed and wrote software used for testing and initial configuration in manufacturing.

*Gen 2000 Nuclear Sensors*

Maintained software for flagship product line under the supervision of the Engineering Manager. Duties included maintaining both internal and external software in the sensor products, adding features to the software, understanding customer applications, and developing custom builds for special applications.
* Maintained embedded software in Gen 2000 products using a hardware specific C compiler and real-time operating system. 
* Automated build and deployment steps for Gen 2000 embedded software. Reduced the 5 step manual procedure to a single build script, saving approximately 10 minutes per build/debug cycle and preventing several common human errors. 
* Maintained user interface software for Gen 2000 products using Delphi Object Pascal.
* Documented build requirements and development environment installation steps for Gen 2000 products, ensuring reproducibility, preventing missing dependencies, and reducing setup time for new developer workstations. 
* Provided advanced phone diagnostic support for service technicians and customers on critical applications. Provided on-site emergency support for some customers.
* Maintained software used for testing product during manufacturing steps.

*Pro Trac Nuclear Sensors*

Designed and wrote software under the supervision of the Pro Trac Project Manager.
* Designed and wrote embedded software for Pro Trac products.
* Developed all software to Safety Integrity Level II standards, using the IAR embedded C/C++ compiler, IBM Rhapsody and IBM Test Real Time.
* Worked in a geographically distributed team with colleagues in the US and Germany.

###Central Kentucky Mechanical, Inc.
####Software Engineer - 2002 to 2003
Designed, wrote, and tested software under the direction of the company owner. Supervised two full-time programmers and multiple contract programmers. Adapted software designs to rapidly changing business requirements.
* Designed and wrote software for call routing and phone operator workflow to link caller id logs to customer orders and enable operators to handle multiple incoming calls. 
* Designed and wrote software for automated phone menu based ordering system.
* Maintained and improved work order database. 
* Used Delphi Object Pascal, Microsoft Visual Basic, Microsoft SQL Server, and PBX phone system interface.


###Western Kentucky University Applied Physics Institute
####Programmer - 1999 to 2001
Wrote and tested software under the direction of Lead Engineer and Assistant Director. 
* Wrote production software for user interface, data acquisition and data analysis for the Online Elemental Coal Analyzer.  Used Windows NT, C++, MS Visual Studio, MFC, TCP/IP, DDE, proprietary data acquisition cards, Programmable Logic Controllers, and other tools.
* Supervised two programmers working on the Online Elemental Coal Analyzer project.
* Wrote program to choose safe combinations of simulation materials for experiments with prototype bomb detection system. 

##Education:
###Western Kentucky University
1994 to 2000
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science,
Second Major in Psychology,
Minor in Mathematics
* Presented "Two topics in Linux Security: The Chroot Jail and Tripwire Intrusion Detection", to the Western Kentucky University Linux Users Group, 11/7/2000
* Tutored other students in C++ and other Computer Science topics, 1997 to 1999
* Co-author of "Self-Esteem Stability and Prejudice", presented July 23, 1997 to the International Society for Political Psychology
* Co-author of "An Omnibus Study of Personality, Values, and Ethnocentrism", presented July 3, 1996 to the International Society for Political Psychology


##Technologies:
###Languages:
Javascript, Node.js, Python, PHP, SQL, Bash, C/C++, Perl, Object Pascal, Visual Basic
###Libraries and Frameworks:
Express, Django, jQuery, Tornado Web Server, Ember, Silverstripe, Zend
###Software:
Linux, Apache, Nginx, Mysql, MongoDB, Git, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, ELB, FPS), Vagrant, VirtualBox, Wordpress, Stripe, Subversion, Plesk, Simple Machines Forums, Drupal, osCommerce, Magento Ecommerce
###Techniques:
Web Application Design, Ajax, Comet, User Interface Design, Object Oriented Design, Database Design, Agile/Scrum

Commit message:

added rht contractor to resume

sherman-adelson-resume.md, after:

﻿#Sherman Adelson

6067 Wayside Avenue, Cincinnati, OH 45230

(513)-218-8048 - sherman.adelson@gmail.com

##Professional Summary:

Experienced in multiple aspects of Software Engineering, particularly modern web technologies, open source tools, project management, and user interface design.

##Experience:

### Robert Half Technology
#### Contractor - July 2015 to Present
Responsible for software architecture, systems administration, and
client deliverables.
* Identified and migrated legacy servers, reducing monthly
  hosting cost.
* Created policy for consistent, secure documentation of server
  configuration and login credentials for multiple sites.
* Performed emergency server diagnostics and restoration for multiple
  clients.
* Joined a failing software project and provided technical leadership
  enabling the project to be completed.
* Performed triage on compromised website and composed plan for
  recovery.

###Zipscene, LLC
####Team Lead - February 2015 to July 2015
Responsible for team maintaining customer facing software and building replacements for legacy systems.
* Led team of 5 developers, each working on several projects per week. Conducted code reviews, wrote instructions for QA team, and ensured deadlines were met.
* Maintained production servers hosting websites and ecommerce for over a dozen national and international restaurant chains.
* Communicated with Portfolio and Customer Care teams to ensure accuracy of project requirements.
* Responsible for IOS and Android app deployments for multiple teams.
* Was one of two people called for urgent customer-facing incidents, including after-hours and on weekends.
* Performed quarterly performance evaluations of people in my team.
* Continued to perform the duties of a Back-end Developer in addition to
  fulfilling Team Lead responsibilities.

####Back-end Developer - September 2014 to February 2015
Responsible for maintaining and enhancing customer facing software for the Delivery Team.
* Maintained legacy websites and fulfilled customer requests with short deadlines.
* Fixed bugs and added features to 8 different CMS and website platforms in Node.js and PHP.
* Wrote data segmentation tools to show priority clients the effects of their customer loyalty programs on sales in weekly reports.
* Maintained and added website platform features using external API integrations including Fishbowl, Exact Target, Google Analytics and others.
* Developed automated scripts to simplify workflow for legacy system maintenance.
* Responsible for production and QA deployment of Magento e-commerce platform.
* Contributed to documentation of legacy maintenance tasks.

###Really Big Spiders, LLC
####Owner, Web Designer, Software Engineer - 2007 to Present
*Tales From the Strange Universe (TFTSU)* http://www.tftsu.com/

Developed Tales From the Strange Universe, an internet browser game with players in more than 10 countries.
* Designed and built TFTSU using PHP, Python, Javascript, Linux, Nginx, and MySql. 
* Used Ajax techniques with jQuery and Javascript to implement advanced user interface features. 
* Built a pay-to-play token system using Amazon FPS for credit card processing. Later migrated payment system from Amazon FPS to Stripe.
* Performed multiple rounds of Usability Testing to refine interface and features. 
* Built an integrated real-time chat system to encourage social networking in TFTSU. 
* Integrated Simple Machines Forum and MediaWiki with TFTSU using single sign-on to foster community interaction and participation. 
* Used Django and Tornado Web Server to implement Comet techniques and allow server-push for chat and real-time alerts.
* Used Python and Bash to automate server deployment, configuration, and dependency installation on Amazon EC2 instances. Automated code deployment from Subversion repository to web server using Python. Automated nightly backups of all databases to Amazon S3.
* Ran a successful Kickstarter campaign to raise funds for completing development.

*Web Design*

Designed web sites and customized Open Source web applications to customer requirements.
* Customized OSCommerce systems including user interface changes, adding and removing payment flow steps, replacing contact forms, and special order tracking.
* Customized Wordpress sites, including creating themes and modifying administrative interface. Wrote programs to batch import hundreds of articles and photos.
* Built websites using Drupal CMS with extensions including calendars and shopping carts.
* Hosted customer websites on a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, Mysql, PHP) on Plesk managed servers.

###Ohmart/Vega Corp.
####Software Engineer - 2003 to 2007
*Industrial Insight Wireless Sensor System*

Designed and wrote software under supervision of Industrial Insight Product Manager.
* Designed and wrote user interface software for Industrial Insight wireless sensor products. 
* Designed and wrote software used for testing and initial configuration in manufacturing.

*Gen 2000 Nuclear Sensors*

Maintained software for flagship product line under the supervision of the Engineering Manager. Duties included maintaining both internal and external software in the sensor products, adding features to the software, understanding customer applications, and developing custom builds for special applications.
* Maintained embedded software in Gen 2000 products using a hardware specific C compiler and real-time operating system. 
* Automated build and deployment steps for Gen 2000 embedded software. Reduced the 5 step manual procedure to a single build script, saving approximately 10 minutes per build/debug cycle and preventing several common human errors. 
* Maintained user interface software for Gen 2000 products using Delphi Object Pascal.
* Documented build requirements and development environment installation steps for Gen 2000 products, ensuring reproducibility, preventing missing dependencies, and reducing setup time for new developer workstations. 
* Provided advanced phone diagnostic support for service technicians and customers on critical applications. Provided on-site emergency support for some customers.
* Maintained software used for testing product during manufacturing steps.

*Pro Trac Nuclear Sensors*

Designed and wrote software under the supervision of the Pro Trac Project Manager.
* Designed and wrote embedded software for Pro Trac products.
* Developed all software to Safety Integrity Level II standards, using the IAR embedded C/C++ compiler, IBM Rhapsody and IBM Test Real Time.
* Worked in a geographically distributed team with colleagues in the US and Germany.

###Central Kentucky Mechanical, Inc.
####Software Engineer - 2002 to 2003
Designed, wrote, and tested software under the direction of the company owner. Supervised two full-time programmers and multiple contract programmers. Adapted software designs to rapidly changing business requirements.
* Designed and wrote software for call routing and phone operator workflow to link caller id logs to customer orders and enable operators to handle multiple incoming calls. 
* Designed and wrote software for automated phone menu based ordering system.
* Maintained and improved work order database. 
* Used Delphi Object Pascal, Microsoft Visual Basic, Microsoft SQL Server, and PBX phone system interface.


###Western Kentucky University Applied Physics Institute
####Programmer - 1999 to 2001
Wrote and tested software under the direction of Lead Engineer and Assistant Director. 
* Wrote production software for user interface, data acquisition and data analysis for the Online Elemental Coal Analyzer.  Used Windows NT, C++, MS Visual Studio, MFC, TCP/IP, DDE, proprietary data acquisition cards, Programmable Logic Controllers, and other tools.
* Supervised two programmers working on the Online Elemental Coal Analyzer project.
* Wrote program to choose safe combinations of simulation materials for experiments with prototype bomb detection system. 

##Education:
###Western Kentucky University
1994 to 2000
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science,
Second Major in Psychology,
Minor in Mathematics
* Presented "Two topics in Linux Security: The Chroot Jail and Tripwire Intrusion Detection", to the Western Kentucky University Linux Users Group, 11/7/2000
* Tutored other students in C++ and other Computer Science topics, 1997 to 1999
* Co-author of "Self-Esteem Stability and Prejudice", presented July 23, 1997 to the International Society for Political Psychology
* Co-author of "An Omnibus Study of Personality, Values, and Ethnocentrism", presented July 3, 1996 to the International Society for Political Psychology


##Technologies:
###Languages:
Javascript, Node.js, Python, PHP, SQL, Bash, C/C++, Perl, Object Pascal, Visual Basic
###Libraries and Frameworks:
Express, Django, jQuery, Tornado Web Server, Ember, Silverstripe, Zend
###Software:
Linux, Apache, Nginx, Mysql, MongoDB, Git, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, ELB, FPS), Vagrant, VirtualBox, Wordpress, Stripe, Subversion, Plesk, Simple Machines Forums, Drupal, osCommerce, Magento Ecommerce
###Techniques:
Web Application Design, Ajax, Comet, User Interface Design, Object Oriented Design, Database Design, Agile/Scrum
